# Dining-Philosophers-Problem
A C program that aims to solve the Dining Philosophers' Problem by the use of semaphores and pthreads.

   The dining philosopher’s problem shows the problems inherent in resource allocation when there are fewer resources than processes that require the resources. In the problem, there is an x number of philosophers and an x-1 number of forks. Each philosopher needs two forks to eat from the bowl of rice in the middle of the table. In order to solve this, we try to give x number of forks for x number of philosophers and incorporate sleep time to prevent the deadlocks. The program runs and it will show the state of the philosophers: eating, thinking or starving. If they are starving and want to eat, they check to see whether they have a left fork and right fork. Only when they have both, they start eating. It is also shown by the program whether they are eating and what forks they are eating with.
   
   First of all, we used sleep() function as a solution to prevent deadlock in this dining philosopher’s problem. This was necessary because the program could crash if it the philosophers wait for each other in a cycle and go into deadlock. We also used semaphores to incorporate mutual exclusion and protect critical section of functions such as taking the fork, putting down the fork and eating. Finally, we used pthreads in a for loop in main to create threads that would simulate philosophers as processes.
   
   In conclusion, deadlocks can be overlooked sometimes and it is very important to put countermeasures that would prevent deadlocks. This Dining Philosopher’s problem is a great problem that shows the problems that exist in resource allocation. I have learned that when it comes to allocating resources and creating processes, I should always look out for deadlocks because it can crash your program.
